


Useful tools:

Copy system ('copy' as in written words)
Handle copy as assets, or associate copy with assets

UI to enter copy/scripts.
1. Ease of data entry
2. Integrated thesaurus and dictionary
3. Automatically show common synonyms, antonyms for selected word
4. spell checking and grammar checking
5. export tools to JSON, other formats
6. Support inclusions and alterations with percentages. Need some type of markup for this. A sentence or phrase  can
    be marked as randomly included based on a percentage.
    Examples
    %%.3:{You see a door to the south.} could mean "include this here  30% of  the time."
    %%{The air is cold.|The frigid air bites} could mean chose one or the other with equal proability (50-50 here)
    %%{.3::The air is cold.|The frigid air bites} "choose first alternate 30% of the time otherwise use second"
    %%{.1::Foo|.1::Bar|Baz} "choose Foo 10% of the time, Bar 10%, or Baz 80%"
     note: the tool  would facilitate entering the markup. The game engine would need to interpret the mark up to
        determine what text to display to the user.
7. support a "delay" symbol to cause the text display to pause before the next text is displayed. See room 19 in Chateau Gaillard.
8. Need a way to link Rooms with code or scripts to perform actions, like lowering stats or damaging health. A mini
    state-machine of actions tied to game state? See rooms 5, 13 in Chateau Gaillard.

Blue sky:
1. Search synomyms/antonyms by categories, like most common, least common, archaic, popular during a date range,
    literary categories (poetic, fiction, fantasy, regional dialect, etc.)
2. Rewrite in particular literary style, time period (AI good solution here.
3. Localization to British English when possible, e.g. realize->realise.

Synonyms, Antonyms, Definitions obtained from Word Net, wiktionary data
Usage data from Google N-gram database


Need a terrian building system
1. Outdoor/overland
2. Indoor, buildings, castles, forts
3. Dungeon crawl

Need to be able to construct maps and floor plans and associate asssets to areas such as text description,
state machines to transition between scenes of the story, set ruless for treasure, NPCs, monsters, wandering monsters, etc.


Entity creator (for both players, monsters, NPCs)
Define classes and attributes, skills, deficits, allowable weapons, spells, restrictions.

From a class creeate specific entity, link with asssets such as backstory, name, etc.


Tool: need to run simulations with character classes against monsters to evaluate balance.



Monsters (but also applies to Heroes....)
Actors
-------------

1. Classes
    These are the typical monsters. There is a prototype store for each class, like Troll, Goblin, etc, and a new
    monster is constructed from the prototype, with customizations for variables like name, stats, etc.
2. Named
    These are similar to prototype monsters but have been pre-created. They exist as a specific instance of a class/prototype.
    Think legendary heros/villains like General Zod. He's a Kryptonian, and shares traits with other Kryptonians. But he
    exits as a unique-named instance.
3. Sui Generis
    Added for completeness. The only example I can think of now is the Abrahamic concept of a single "God." That one
    God would be sui generis. Every other example I can think of right now, say "Jupiter" or "Posiden", may have
    very different individual traits, but they are still classes of gods from the Roman pantheon.


Objects
-------------------
There are similarities and differences with monsters.
1. Sui Generis
    In many text adventures, you collect special objects for points or because you need them to solve puzzles. Say,
    "golden key" which you need to unlock a particular door in that game. The concept of "key" may be pervasive enough
    to warrant creating an object class Key, of which a "golden key" is a named instance. Ie., has identity. Other objects
    may not warrant the overhead of a class, like "golden diadem" as a treasure object. We can probably consider it
    a unique item and not just a named representative of a "Tiara" class. In another game, perhaps there are many
    tiaras with different abilities and thus in that game you'd *want* a Tiara class.
2. Classes
    In a text adventure, most objects are one-offs and don't require a formal class. But in the broader scope of D&D games,
    there are many examples. A sword, for example, is a type of weapon. A special sword like "Flaming Sword of Gilgamesh"
    might be best described as a type of sword with additional properties, rather than a sui generis item.
3. Value types. like a pile of a thing with a quantity/amount field. A "stack of gold coins" worth 20.


Terms : Unique Entities, Identifiable Objects vs Value Types, Commodities, Fungible Items

value types
    Managed by Value Types, Counters, or Inventory Slot Structures


Balance design
 1. traits and attributes should ideally occur in spectra, perhaps multiple spectra.
        specific values across all spectrums should sum or average equally along all the classes.
        Example: Say STRENGTH and DEFENSE are opposing spectra. The combination of these values should
        be roughly comparable between different classes.
        Simplified concept - there could be a total amount of points to distribute among various attributes..
            Distributing these points in different combinations in two classes should allow entities from those classes,
            assuming similar experience levels and balanced equipment (weapons, spells, special skills (Kung Fu), when
            battling each other to have similar records of wins vs losses. Tool should simulate many such interactions
            to verify this balance.
            

Game Engines:
    * Combat engine
    * Procedural engine
    * BX system (streamlines early D&D rules)


On-Person Items
1. What the person is wearing on their body to include
    a. clothing
    b. armor
    c. rings

    Wearables are items that are affixed loosely or tightly to a person and require no effort to maintain once
    so worn, like pants, a shirt, boots, armor, rings, etc.
2. Holding
    a. weapons - requires use of hands. Some weapons require only one hand, some require two. If person only has
        one hand, this may limit what weapons they can use.
    b. shields - if attacked to arm may count as wearable, but probably less stable than clothing or regular armor.
                 if larger, requires at least one arm/hand

3. Carrying
    a. Bags or sacks may require one or both hands depending on how heavy the contents are.
    b. a backpack, purse, fanny or front pack may be held with a strap around the legs, waist, shoulders, or
       back, allowing hands-free use of the bag.
    c. Bag can only hold things smaller than themselves, and have a fixed volume. I.e., have limits on what
        can fit inside, as well as overall weight limits for the person.

4. Porters
    a. OG D&D anticipated the need/use of hirelings for combat and to carry supplies. Such a porter may be
        carrying items belonging to a player thus increasing what the player is carrying "in the field."
    b. If a porter runs away the player may lose items, unless the porter abandons them. Even so, if the
        items cannot be distributed to the remaining porters, some items must be left behind.

5. Beats of burden
    a. horses, mules, donkeys, etc, with or without carts, might accompany a party on a quest. These need to
        be tended to so they remain healthy, don't run away or get stolen by wandering brigands.

6. Weight restrictions
    a. This is a fantasy game, so real world weight restrictions don't apply. But there still must be limits?
