
In game architecture, this specific pattern is called the Controller/Possession Pattern

1. The Core Terms to Use

Actor / Pawn: This is the physical body in the game world (the hero, the goblin, the wolf).
    It holds the stats (health, strength), the inventory, and the physical location. It has zero decision-making power
    on its own.

Controller: This is the "brain." It contains the logic of what to do next.
    AIController: A controller driven by code (behavior trees, state machines, or LLMs).
    PlayerController: A controller driven by human keyboard input.

2. How the Architecture WorksInstead of creating a Player class, you create a generic Actor class.
    You then "attach" a controller to it.
    [ PlayerController ] (Human Input)
                 │
                 ▼  (Possesses)
[ Actor: Goblin ] ◄─(Swappable)─► [ Actor: Hero ]
                 ▲
                 │  (Possesses)
           [ AIController ] (Computer Logic)

To swap characters, you simply tell the PlayerController to unpossess the Hero and possess the Goblin.
Simultaneously, an AIController takes over the Hero so they don't frozen in place.

3. Text Adventure Implementation Example

Because your game is a text-based simulation, here is how you can structure your code objects conceptually:
    Room Object: Holds a list of Items (swords, potions) and a list of Actors (orc, wizard).
    Actor Object: Has a property called current_controller.
    The Game Loop: The game loop simply iterates through every Actor in the world and calls
        current_controller.get_next_action().
            If the controller is an AI, it returns "attack hero".
            If the controller is the Player, it waits for the human to type kill orc.

4. Benefits for your "Sims-like" Simulation

Uniform Rules: Because the human is just another controller, the player cannot do anything a monster couldn't
    theoretically do if the AI was smart enough.
Emergent Gameplay: If the player switches from a Hero to a Wolf, the game's text parser automatically changes context.
    Instead of "You see a sword," the Wolf's perspective might read, "You smell metal and blood."


Anything that can be interacted with and is not a living Agent/Actor is an Entity

In game architecture and simulator design, the overarching class for all non-living, physical things in the world
is almost universally called an Item or a Prop.
To handle specific distinctions between portable gear and unmovable room objects, developers typically use a
master class with specific boolean properties or clear inheritance subclasses.

Here is the industry-standard naming convention and structure for these objects:

1. The Master Class: Item, Prop, or Entity

This is the base class for everything that is not an Actor. It handles basic physical properties like name,
description, weight, and current_location (which could be a Room ID or an Actor’s inventory slot).

2. Subtype 1: Portable Objects (PortableItem or Pickup)

These are the small things that can be added to an Actor’s inventory.

Industry Terms: Item, Collectible, Pickup, Gear, or InventoryItem.
Common Subclasses:
    Equippable / Weapon: Can be wielded (swords, shields).
    Consumable: Destroyed upon use (potions, food).
    KeyItem: Cannot be dropped or sold; unlocks progression (keys, story notes).


3. Subtype 2: Heavy/Fixed Objects (Fixture or StaticMesh)

These are the objects added to a room for gameplay logic, puzzles, or flavor, but they cannot be stuffed into a backpack.
Industry Terms: Fixture, InteractableProp, DynamicObject, or StaticEntity.
Common Subclasses:
MovableProp / PhysicsObject: The heavy boulder you mentioned. It has properties like weight or
    strength_required_to_push, allowing strong Actors to move it between rooms or move it aside to reveal a hidden door.
Container: Chests, wardrobes, or crates. They cannot be picked up, but they hold a sub-list of PortableItems that
    can be taken.
DecorativeInteractable: The tapestry you mentioned. It cannot be taken, but it has states (e.g., is_hanging = true).
    An Actor can use an action like examine tapestry or pull tapestry to trigger a hidden switch.

Recommended Code Blueprint (Conceptual)To make your "Sims-style" text simulation elegant, you can use
a unified hierarchy where portability is just a trait. This prevents you from needing separate code logic to move
a boulder versus moving a pebble.

                  [ Base Entity ]
                         │
        ┌────────────────┴────────────────┐
        ▼                                 ▼
    [ Actor ]                          [ Item ]
(Hero, Wolf, Orc)             (Has weight, description)
                                          │
                        ┌─────────────────┴─────────────────┐
                        ▼                                   ▼
                [ PortableItem ]                        [ Fixture ]
            (is_carryable = true)                  (is_carryable = false)
                        │                                   │
         ┌──────────────┴──────────────┐             ┌──────┴──────────────┐
         ▼                             ▼             ▼                     ▼
    [ Weapon ]                   [ Consumable ]  [ Container ]       [ MovableProp ]
  (Sword, Bow)                  (Potion, Bread) (Chest, Desk)       (Boulder, Cart)


Why this fits your Simulation Goal

By giving the base Item class a property like weight and the Actor class a property like carry_capacity,
you don't even need hardcoded classes to separate them.

A pebble has a weight of 1. Any Actor can carry it.
A sword has a weight of 5. Most Actors can carry it.
A boulder has a weight of 500. No Actor has a carry capacity that high, so it is naturally "un-pickable,"
but a giant Actor might have a push_capacity of 600, allowing them to shove it.


How to "guard" traversal edges between nodes, i.e., handle locked door:

Using a "guard" mechanism attached to your room edges is an incredibly elegant solution for a graph-based simulation.
In software architecture and game design, this design pattern is formally known as a Gatekeeper, Condition Guard, or
a Traversal Predicate.
By making these guards modular objects rather than hardcoding "locked" logic directly into the room, you can swap, add,
or remove them dynamically during runtime.

Here is how you can classify, name, and structure this system for your text adventure.

1. Architectural Names for the System

EdgeGuard / TraversalGuard: This is the most accurate mechanical term. The object "guards" the graph edge and
evaluates whether an Actor meets the conditions to pass.
Blocker / Obstacle: A more gameplay-focused term. The edge is blocked until the obstacle is resolved.
Lock / Keyhole: A literal term, though it might feel conceptually awkward if the guard is a sleeping dragon instead
 of a door lock.

 2. Types of Edge Guards (Subclasses)Because your game is a simulation, "unlocking" an edge doesn't just have to mean
 using a literal key. By creating an EdgeGuard base class, you can implement several clever subtypes:

 ItemGuard (The Key Lock): Requires the traversing Actor to have a specific Portable Item (e.g., a brass key) in
 their inventory. As you noted, once used, the guard can be deleted entirely, or its is_locked state flips to false.

 AttributeGuard (The Stat Check): Requires the Actor to have a certain stat. For example, a "Heavy Rubble" guard
 on the Down edge requires Actor.strength > 15 to clear.

 StateGuard (The Event Lock): Checks a global game variable. For example, the East gate is blocked by a magical barrier
 until the global event boss_is_dead = true.

 ActorGuard (The Living Sentinel): The edge is blocked because a specific hostile creature is in the room.
 The player cannot go North because a giant spider is guarding that archway. Once the spider is killed
 (removed from the room), the edge becomes free.

 3. How to Structure the Edge Object

 Instead of your room edges being simple pointers to another room ID, they can be objects themselves.

 {
   "direction": "North",
   "destination_room_id": "room_102",
   "guard": {
     "type": "ItemGuard",
     "required_item_id": "iron_key",
     "locked_description": "A heavy iron door blocks the way North. It has a massive keyhole.",
     "unlock_text": "You turn the iron key. The door creaks open permanently."
   }
 }

4. How the Traversal Logic Executes
When an Actor (Player or AI) attempts a command like go north, the engine runs a quick checklist:

Check Edge: Does the North edge exist? (If null, print "You can't go that way.")
Check Guard: Does the edge have an active EdgeGuard object attached?
Evaluate: If yes, call guard.can_pass(actor).
    If True: The actor moves to the destination room. If the guard is a one-time lock, the engine deletes
        the guard from the edge.
    If False: The movement fails, and the engine prints the guard's locked_description.



Why this fits your AI Simulation goals

This architecture is incredibly powerful for your future AI controlled heroes and monsters. Because
the EdgeGuard exposes its requirements, the AI can read them!

If an AI hero wants to go North to escape a monster, but the path is blocked by an ItemGuard requiring an iron_key,
the AI's pathfinding system can scan the surrounding rooms for the key, go pick it up, return to the room, and unlock
the door—exactly like a human player would.

Separate automatic checks from active commands.
In game architecture, this is done by giving your EdgeGuard a property or method that dictates how it handles
validation.Here is the best way to model both systems and integrate the "unlock door" command into your edge guard.

1. The Core Property: TriggerType

You can add a simple property to your EdgeGuard called trigger_type. This defines how the guard reacts to the actor.

PASSIVE (The silent/automatic model): The guard checks the actor's inventory the exact moment they type go north.
If they have the key, it deletes itself instantly and lets them through.
ACTIVE (The command-required model): The guard blocks movement until a specific interaction command
is successfully targeted at it. Walking into it with the key will just return the locked message.

2. Modeling the Data StructureHere is how you can represent these two different doors using the exact same
EdgeGuard class template.

The Silent/Passive Guard (Example 1)

{
  "direction": "North",
  "destination_room_id": "room_102",
  "guard": {
    "name": "rusty gate",
    "trigger_type": "PASSIVE",
    "required_item_id": "rusty_key",
    "consume_item": true,
    "locked_description": "A rusty iron gate bars the way North."
  }
}

The Command-Required/Active Guard (Example 2)

{
  "direction": "West",
  "destination_room_id": "room_105",
  "guard": {
    "name": "oak door",
    "trigger_type": "ACTIVE",
    "required_item_id": "brass_key",
    "consume_item": false,
    "locked_description": "A heavy oak door to the West is locked.",
    "unlock_text": "You turn the brass key in the oak door. It clicks open permanently."
  }
}

3. How the "Unlock Door" Command Integrates

When a player types unlock door or unlock west door, your regex parser matches the intent.
Here is the step-by-step logic your engine executes to resolve that command:

Step A: Find the Target Guard

The engine scans the current room's edges to see if any active EdgeGuard matches the name the player typed
(e.g., "door").
    If the player typed unlock door and there is a guard on the West edge named "oak door", the engine selects
    that guard.
    If there are multiple locked doors, the engine asks for clarification ("Which door do you mean, North or West?").

Step B: Execute the unlock() Method

Once the engine locates the guard on the West edge, it passes the actor's inventory to the guard's unlock function:
Check Trigger Type: If the guard's trigger_type is PASSIVE, it might say:
    "You don't need to unlock this manually; just try walking through it."
Check Key: It checks if brass_key is in the actor's inventory. If missing:
    "You don't have the right key for this door."
Resolve Unlock: If the key is present, the guard prints its unlock_text.
Remove the Guard: The engine deletes the guard object from the West edge. The edge is now a standard,
    completely unrestricted link to room_105.

4. Updating the Room Description Permanently

You mentioned wanting the room description to change permanently (e.g., changing from "A heavy oak door to the
West is locked" to "The door to the West is unlocked").
Instead of hardcoding a different room text string, you can make your room description dynamic using
string interpolation. Your room description function can automatically check the status of its edges.

def get_room_description(room):
    text = room.base_description  # "You are in a damp dungeon cell."

    # Dynamically append edge information
    for edge in room.edges:
        if edge.guard is not None:
            # If the guard is still there, print its locked status
            text += f" {edge.guard.locked_description}"
        else:
            # If the guard is gone (unlocked), print the open path
            text += f" An open archway leads {edge.direction}."

    return text

Why this benefits your AI Simulation
By using the ACTIVE model with explicit unlock commands, your future AI agents will navigate the world logically.
Instead of just teleporting through doors, an AI hero's decision tree will look like this:
Goal: Go West.
Obstacle: Edge is blocked by an ACTIVE guard named "oak door" requiring "brass_key".
Check Inventory: AI has "brass_key".
Action: AI executes the command unlock oak door.
Action: AI executes the command go west.